REST and API are acronyms for Representational State Transfer and Application Programming Interface. REST APIs are integral to web application development and are becoming mainstays of all web development.

REST refers to a group of software architecture design constraints that bring about efficient, reliable, and scalable systems. So REST isn't a specific technology, but rather a data architecture and design methodology that produces predictable and consistent outputs and behaviors by receiving a set of standard methods called verbs and returning standardized structured data, typically JSON or XML, called the resource.

client send a URL, Universal Resource Locator, request to the server pointing at a web resource in the form of a specific HTML document. The server responds by returning the document along with its adjoining files to the browser which replaces the previous content with all new content.

The application then sends a URI or Universal Resource Identifier request for a web resource representing the next state of the application to be transferred, and uses the resulting data to build the current view. When the visitor navigates from one view to another, the application sends a new URI request for the web resource representing the next state of the application which is transferred and used to add, modify, replace, or delete the previous data. The key is this representational state is transferred as a data object, not the entire new set of files. And the application can update its data without rendering the whole new page. This allows us to create so-called single page applications on the web and native apps for mobile devices and platforms that all use or consume the same REST resource.

URI or Universal Resource Identifier, is described as a "compact sequence of characters "that identifies an abstract or physical resource" that "provides a simple and extensible means "for identifying a resource." The URI is the most generic method for naming and locating a web resource. The official examples of URIs show you that any sequence of characters that identifies a resource is considered a URI. The URL, or Universal Resource Locator, is a subset of the URI. The URL not only identifies a resource, but also explains how to access that resource by providing an explicit method like HTTP or FTP. In other words, all URLs are URIs, but not all URIs are URLs. There's also another subset of URIs we rarely talk about, the URN, or Universal Resource Name. 

There are six of these constraints and to understand REST